I would like to create a program to help salon owners maintain their stock budget

The program is called Stockit

Please include LOGO as per attached

There are three pages to the program

1.	The Profit calculator

2.	The Retail Stock Budget

3.	The Professional Stock Budget

The Profit Calculator

The purpose of the profit calculator is for the user to establish how muc profit they make from selling an particular item.

The user can add in 

Product: The name of the product
RRP: The Retail Price they will sell it ( RRP) 
VAT Registered: A tick box to say if they are a VAT registered business

List Price: The List price that they would normally pay for the product
Discount: This is where they put any negotiated discount off the list price
Retro: This is where they put any negotiated retrospective discount
Usage: This is where the user can insert a percentage for an allowance for usage or losses 
Commission: This is where the user can put in the amount of commission that they will pay to a team member that sells the product

There should be a clear summary of the real cost of the product, the sale price and the profit.

The layout needs to be clear and user friendly and in a large format so that it can be displayed on a screen and easy to read. 

Any explanations to be hidden and only revealed with an (i) icon. 

The profit calculator should have the option to save multiple scenarios so that the user can make comparisons between different products or scenarios.  


The Retail Stock Budget

The retail stock budget page is to help the user keep a clear track of how they order their stock. The retail stock budget is to manage the budge for purchasing retail items.

The user has to work to a set percentage budget. 

For example – if the retail stock budget is 65% - If the salon retail turnover was £1000 then the use would have £650 to replace the stock sold.

On this page, the user will insert their NET SALES

NET SALES: this is the amount of retail items sold
RETAIL STOCK BUDGET: this is the percentage of net sales that is allocated to replacing sold stock

There is then a number of fields, that can be expanded as required 
The user will insert the company name where they will be purchasing their products.
Oposite the company, they will insert the amount they will spend with that company.

FOR EXAMPLE – if the net sales = £1000 and the Retail Stock Budget is 65% - the user has £650 to spend on stock. If the user purchases £300 of stock from company 1 – they would have £350 left over to spend with other companies / brands. 

There should be a running total at the bottom of the page that shows the user exactly how much they have to spend to stay on budget.
If they go over budget, then the negative balance should be highlighted in red to make it clear that they are over budget. 

The currency format is default to British pounds £ 
However the user can change the currency if required. 

The user should have the ability to print out their budget report and a print friendly format. 


 
The Professional Stock Budget

The professional stock budget page works in the same way

The user inserts the Total Salon Net Services
The user inserts the Professional Stock Budget
This tells the user how much they have to spend on professional stock 

FOR EXAMPLE:
The salon takes £10,000 in net services
The professional stock budget is: 7%
This would show the use they have £700 to spend on professional stock
If the user spends £500 with company 1 – then they have £200 to spend on other companies to stay on budget. 

There should be a running total at the bottom of the page that shows the user exactly how much they have to spend to stay on budget.
If they go over budget, then the negative balance should be highlighted in red to make it clear that they are over budget. 

The currency format is default to British pounds £ 
However the user can change the currency if required. 

The user should have the ability to print out their budget report and a print friendly format. 

All pages should have the option to export to an excel format so that the user can open in an excel spreadsheet. 




 




